We previously talked
about Course Coding.
Today, let's look at
a computationally
efficient way to
perform Course Coding,
Tile Coding.
By the end of this video,
you'll be able to;
explain how tile coding achieves
both generalization
and discrimination,
and understand the benefits and
limitations of tile coding.
Tile coding is a specific type
of Course Coding.
Tile coding performs
an exhaustive partition
of the state space using
overlapping grids.
This is perhaps best
understood through an example.
Let's revisit our fish
friend who lives in
a two-dimensional continuous
state space, the pond.
Unlike course coding which
uses arbitrary shapes,
tile coding uses squares.
What's the most convenient way to
lay out a bunch of
squares over space?
It's a grid. Let's call
this grid a tiling.
So far using this is
just state aggregation.
Larger tiles will result in
increased generalization.
Although the ideal tile size
depends on the specific problem,
it's generally a good idea
to use larger tiles.
To improve the discriminative
ability of our tile coding,
we can put several tilings
on top of each other.
Each tiling is offset
by a small amount.
Offsetting each layer of tiling
creates many small intersections.
This results in
better discrimination.
In practice, it is useful
to use a large number of tilings.
For one tiling, generalization
only occurs within the square,
but with multiple tilings,
updates in this state generalize
to these other states.
The generalization in
this case is diagonal.
If we had used random offsets,
then the generalization would be
more spherical and homogeneous.
This is discussed
more in the textbook.
Let's talk about how to control
the generalization
properties further.
We can do this by
creating a grid of
rectangles rather than squares.
An efficient way to do this is to
scale each dimension
of the state space.
The environment appears to
have gotten squished here.
Actually, layering squares over
this squished environment
is like laying
rectangles over
the unsquished environment.
By using rectangles, we can
control the broadness of
the generalization across
each dimension of
the state-space.
Tile coding can represent
a wide range of functions,
but its utility
does not end there.
Tile coding is also
computationally efficient.
Since grids are uniform,
it's easy to compute which cell
the current state is in.
Due to its computational
efficiency,
tile coding can be
used to quickly run
preliminary experiments in
low dimensional environments.
However, as the number
of dimensions grows,
the number of required tiles
grows exponentially.
As a result, it can be
necessary to tile
input dimension separately.
Whether or not
input dimensions can be
treated independently depends
on the specific problem.
In this video, we talked about
course coding and how it is
a generalization of state
aggregation. See you next time.